Nomad capitalist Andrew Henderson and I
had this interview part one came before
this there'll be a link in the
description this is part two where we
talk about flag Theory flag theory is
about dispersing your assets and your
interests so that you don't have anyone
government or institution that has the
power over you we need to take the power
back and it's not as simple as moving
from point A to point B it's a lot more
complicated can we get into that in
today's interview take a look you talk a
lot
about like on this topic here we talk
about Turkey um turkey by you know you
can get citizenship by investment yes
couple different
options um in my business um I work with
um suppliers in China so I do like um
sell on Amazon and Walmart and all that
and I'm working with China but
increasingly Vietnam is becoming more
attractive it's also becoming more
attractive um number one I love Vietnam
are becoming more bullish on just
because of everything basically they're
they're coming up with more suppliers
although a lot of them are tend to be
Chinese um at least in my experience um
but we also have the geopolitical nature
as well as the tourism right they have
certain advantages there in Vietnam but
if you could talk a little bit about
turkey and anything about Vietnam and
and maybe bricks and sort of bring that
all together well first of all let me
just tell you every time I have a a
fancy conier service to help me getto
events and every time I think all right
like let me just you know I'm a very
Emerging Markets guy and people think
like oh he's like a Backpacker he
doesn't want listen I could afford to
live anywhere um and sure Switzerland's
great but it's kind of needlessly
expensive and it's kind of a little
boring and it just you know not worth it
I could live anywhere I wanted I prefer
to spend I'm planning next year's travel
I prefer to spend most of my time in
Emerging Markets people are nicer you
have more what's called Soft Freedom you
just feel more freedom on an everyday
basis I was in Hanoi which I think is
the nicest um big city in Vietnam I
don't hoim is the business Capital but I
I I didn't find it as interesting I was
in Hanoi there's a hotel called the
capella Hotel it's a small chain most
beautiful most attention to detail
hotels I've been in I think it was
probably $7 or $800 a night for like a
really nice Suite the most incredible
attention to detail even like to put
your glasses up on a little thing
recently though this conier service sent
me to the montro jazz festival in montro
on Lake Geneva in Switzerland and I paid
about twice that much for a hotel where
things are falling apart and there's
cables dangling and um uh the paint
doesn't match the other paint because
they like plugged in a hole in the wall
and now it looks disorderly and they're
not as nice and they don't really do
much and they don't really even clean
the room until you know way too late um
and it's like wait a second
I just want great service have nice
relationships with people um all that
kind of stuff and why is you know that's
so difficult so I you know I think
Vietnam is doing incredibly well uh I'm
an investor on a smaller level in
Vietnam it's a little bit harder to get
into but there's some funds again harder
to get into as an American that you can
invest in um and yeah I mean China has
kind of nobody's going to China for
cheap labor anymore I mean even Tim Cook
will say that but that's why I think
Vietnam does well Mex meico I said if I
were going to give birth to a child
Mexico and the us both Grant citizenship
based on where you're born I I think 18
years from now I would be Mexican net
net right if I came you know obviously
you know I have some resources I
wouldn't give a lot of them to my trial
but I would teach them how to be
successful and I think if you if you
factor that into the equation I'd rather
be Mexican I'd have a lot fewer
regulations I'd be have access to a
country that's going the right direction
sure the new president may not you know
may not be ideal but if you look at some
of those stocks that tanked when she got
elected I mean they've largely banked
bounced back like Dro Mexico um so I
just think like places like Vietnam
places like Mexico are heading the right
direction uh you mentioned Turkey um
yeah if you buy a house if you buy an
apartment if you buy real estate even if
you hire a lot of people you can get
citizenship and then you can sell the
investment in three years and you can
keep that passport forever not a bad
passport for traveling to everywhere but
the West exactly and I think in the
future that's going to be very uh
valuable I you know I mean to travel to
Asia to travel to Central and South
America that Turkish passport is one of
the best in the world and yet they're
not bothering you what what does
inflation in that country have to do
with holding the
passport I mean I encourage everyone to
follow the law if you live in a country
pay your taxes because you don't have to
live in that country but there are
people who don't agree with me who live
in countries like turkey they live in
the country and don't pay their taxes so
the risk that you're going to a citizen
living somewhere far away and they're
going to suddenly decide to be like the
US I don't think it would even occur to
them quite frankly they know they can't
do it uh but they couldn't do it I mean
what what's turkey going to do like
they're going to send people after you
when you're living in in Asia to like
make sure you pay your Turkish taxes no
you get a Citi you get citizenship you
don't live there you pop in and layovers
because Turkish Airlines is the best
airline to connect to everywhere in the
world and um yeah I think those
countries the future but again there
will be somebody who will like oh yeah
like turkey oh yeah well I I we just
filmed a video called live like a king
in istan it's our series we show luxury
living in places you wouldn't expect um
and there's I mean it's very possible to
live a very nice life in Turkey I'm not
saying you should go there and do that
full-time but to have a passport like
that in your back pocket um I know a guy
who became
Cambodian because he thinks there's
going to be business opportunities there
and it was worth becoming that um I have
people who are becoming you know South
American you know
citizenships so uh you know skate to
where the puck is
going uh and the puck is going to your
point wealth is moving back
East uh it was moving to the West for a
long time and now it's kind of somewhere
I think over the Middle East like kind
of the the the mean of wealth the median
point of of wealth in the world is is
you know heading back towards East
Asia um and I think that what do you
hear you follow geopolitics it's a lot
of countries who say we're kind we're
tired of getting pushed around lectured
and getting a bad deal from the US and
their allies and now there's
Alternatives now we can go and hang out
in bricks we can do a deal with Saudi
Arabia we can buy oil in our own
currency we can go and do a deal with
China I think like 75% of Malaysians
prefer to be partnered with China than
the US you can say that's terrible and
China's evil guess what you don't get to
vote you don't get to choose it's not
your choice they're going to go
Thailand's doing the same thing most of
Asia is going towards
China um and the us only has themselves
to blame for basically thinking hey we
got a monopoly on this we could just
come in and throw a few crumbs at them
and they'll all bow at our feet well
those days are over and so how is that
going to impact your companies and your
I me even the S&P 500 oh you don't need
to buy International stocks just buy the
S&P 500 well as these companies have
increasingly I mean
many still have international exposure
no doubt but like I think as the world
in the next 20 years becomes more
multi-polar you will see more kind of
regional clickish kind of stuff and even
you'll see a place like Mexico doing
business all over the world and it will
no longer be under the Yoke of the US
and you're going to see it flourish as a
result and people can laugh at that all
they want um but I strongly believe
you'll see that in the next 20
years increasingly I'm I'm what I'm
doing in my business a physical prod
businesses getting off of um just
focusing on the United States and
expanding expanding as much as I can
either with Partners or doing it on my
own in certain cases but um what's
Happening Here is too much focus on one
thing whether it's we're talking about
the US dollar whether we're talking
about us Financial system like there's
way too much focus and I think that um
if people are um finding themselves sort
of stuck
I think that it's going to be more of a
problem in the coming years like things
we're not going to start reversing Trend
and going back into you know more growth
um coming from the West I I think people
are mistaken if they do believe that and
you know the writing is on the wall
essentially I I think the big issue is
the following is people have an ego and
they've been told for all these decades
it's okay to have an ego it's the best
place everyone wants our money here's a
question we get we get posed a lot well
if it's so bad bad why is everyone
coming here first of all listen everyone
gets to make their own choice obviously
330 million people choose to live in the
United States I I made a video Once how
to leave with $1,000 buy a plane ticket
and go like I didn't say how to move
with all your furniture and like you
know seven bedrooms three I said like
here's how to leave if you don't like it
here's how to leave buy a plane ticket
if you make $1,000 a month you can get
residence in certain Latin American
countries and you can go buy a one-way
plane ticket get your residence permit
you can go nobody's stopping you so 330
million people choose to live there
but uh every year but you know thousands
of people give up US citizenship I doubt
many of them are immigrants from El
Salvador who became naturalized uh in
fact I can tell from our clients
immigrants and children of immigrants
almost never give up their citizenship
it's it's a sun cost
fallacy um but I realize you know I'm
going to Wales uh soon to track down
part of my ancestry and to go and see
where they from Welsh coal miners who
left for a better life uh and I did that
and I built most of my wealth the vast
majority of my weal at this point
outside of the United States where I'm
from and I think that the ego of
everyone's coming here listen I I have
great empathy for people from places
like Central America I think that there
should be a sort of Marshal plan for
that region I mean the drug war which
has failed uh pushing that not through
the Bahamas on Plains but pushing that
over land through Central America is
part of the reason you have violence in
that part of the world yeah you know
what if if your town is violent and
people are dying every day you might
want to get out too and go to a place
that you've been marketed to is the
place to be um but the US is very good
at marketing I mean probably the best
marketers in the world are Americans um
because it's a country built on
marketing and even since the 1800s
immigrants realized hey the marketing
doesn't quite match the reality but hey
we're here again Sun cost fallacy um but
if you're basing your country's success
the fact that people are leaving um you
know emerging World um you know you know
violent poverty stri stricken situations
I'm not moving to the US I'm not moving
to the UK every High tax Western country
is losing wealthy people um I'm not
saying some aren't coming but they are
leaving look at the UK they're about to
lose a bunch of wealthy people with
their new policies um and so it just
comes back to you know for me I want to
Define myself as um someone who makes an
impact uh as an entrepreneur as you know
whatever you know people say I'm a I'm a
husband I'm a father what
um to me that's my definition I don't
need to Define Myself by a
nationality uh I doubt that you're
probably like most other Americans or
most other Canadians anyway uh
especially if you're thinking about this
kind of stuff you're probably already in
the minority why do we need to Define
ourselves as that but when that's all
you can Define yourself as that's when
it gets really irrit iritating to hear
that if you look at the stats the United
States is number one in only one thing
and that is prisoners per capita not
even obesity
anymore um and that's not me being
angry uh but that's me since 12 years
old reading the stats and reading the
indexes and reading what's happening and
agreeing with you that yeah I mean
wealth is moving and you can be angry
about that or you can accept that you're
one of 8 billion people and no one cares
what you think and no one cares what I
think and no one nobody cares the
world's not going to change because You'
have an opinion and you can say Hey how
do I do this and how do I go along with
this within my
values one of the things that we
should um make sure to cover here before
before we end off is flag Theory yeah
and you know for most people I certainly
wasn't told about it growing up that's
for sure um and just trying to explain I
I've tried explained it on my uh videos
before um and just to highlight for
people and I I should also say just
because they're not doing that now they
have a ninet to5 they live in the one
place that they should start to go and
and do these things and why and so
on well yeah many many years ago there
was you know the three flag Theory and
then it became the five flag Theory and
now I think that people just wanted to
be distributed as much as possible uh
when I first started talking about this
in my home with my particularly my
father back in the mid 90s in the early
days of the internet you remember
Prodigy Go Prodigy and you'd say is
anyone thinking of moving to New
Zealand uh the idea was hey we'll sell
the house we we'll pack up the truck and
we'll ship everybody over to New Zealand
and then one day we'll become New
Zealand citizens because you don't just
get the citizenship when you arrive
people also have that
misconception um and kind of like we'll
trade the us for New
Zealand and so you know does New Zealand
of the best safest and most easy to work
with banks probably not uh is it the
best place to invest your money like in
the New Zealand stock market probably
not um what else like go through the
list my idea is choose the things that
are best in each
place and then what is not best in that
place go somewhere else so for example
you could say in my opinion the most
userfriendly banks they don't have a lot
of blah blah blah um that are super safe
according to all the Bings you know
allow diversification they're in
Singapore so you can have your bank
account in Singapore oh so you're going
to live in Singapore oh it's so
expensive I didn't say live in Singapore
I said go and open a non-resident bank
account and Bank in
Singapore uh you could live let's just
take Malaysia as an example I called it
the global citizen sandwich you live in
the plac that's in the middle you keep
your wealth in the place on the top and
then you invest in the place that's up
and coming with there's lots of profit
potential but you don't have to do that
I mean you could say I'm going to invest
in the S&P 500 in a brokerage account
that has a bit more protections that's
in whatever country I'm going to keep my
bank account in Singapore I'm going to
live in Malaysia um you know I'll pay
taxes in Malaysia potentially even
though you know their system is if the
money is not earned in Malaysia you
generally don't pay at least for the
time being um you know like where is the
best now I might have a bank account in
Malaysia to facilitate payment of local
bills uh with services like wise even
that's not always required these days
but my main bank account brokerage
account Investments may be somewhere
else right and so the idea is what's
Best in each Place uh I look at it in
three categories your finances your
freedom and your lifestyle finances are
your taxes how much do you pay if you're
paying 40 and 50% you're being robbed
You're not getting any your money's
worth especially if you're
successful right uh you know there's no
place on Earth that I can go and pay $5
million in taxes and think well I'm
getting a great deal there's nowhere on
Earth um so you know you can lower your
taxes legally doesn't have to be to zero
uh I've my taxes have gone up you know
not as a percentage but just the amounts
gone up um you can you know choose to
protect your assets diversify your
assets that's the finances freedom is
where do you feel more free yeah your
country's got a constitution that's cute
so the politicians follow it or do they
trample on it uh I don't think you need
to tell the wonderful nice sweet people
in Malaysia just to leave you alone
because they're pretty harmonious like
they don't like you know maybe they
don't have quite as much of like things
enshrined in law but people just chill
they don't screw with you like people
aren't being shot
at um so go for soft freedom and then
lifestyle where do you enjoy the
lifestyle um there's many things that
could Define that but you know each each
place is going to serve a different need
I think Singapore's got a great
lifestyle but is it financially sound to
go and pay 60% tax as a foreigner to buy
a property to live in $10 million house
and then you got to pay $6 million in
tax down the drain there it goes when
you could live in Malaysia and buy the
same house for probably a million
dollars uh why would you do that right
the lifestyle is not that much worse so
it's these combination of things where
you're kind of figuring out what's the
best opportunity and the reality is when
you get outside of a handful of Western
countries even some Western countries
are good at this they realize they've
got to compete for your business I'm
sitting in Ireland decades ago they're
like you know
what people can't get jobs here let's
join this thing called the European
Union let's have the lowest tax in that
organization and let's get all the
businesses to come here we've got
English speakers and we'll compete
because if we don't compete we're going
to get rolled
over but it's the US the UK maybe to
some extent Australia and a handful of
other countries that are just like Hey
we're the bell of the ball but they're
not the B they're like the AG it's like
it's like the prom queen and now she's
45 and it's she she can't let you know
she can't let go like she she gets
together the friend they still talk like
remember like you know in 19 you know 93
when we had you like it's
over and that's hard for these countries
to admit and I think the reason you want
a second passport is the more it hits
them right I mean you ever see like
these Kens at the store when it's like
they don't just get to like bat their
eyelashes they get it's like now they're
now they're mad right that's going to be
what your country is going to be like
when it's like when they can't just like
Bully everyone to doing their into doing
they're bidding oh now they're angry and
now they're more rules more taxes more
like oh it's going to be nasty I I
really believe that um and and so you
know that's why you want to be
Diversified I mean imagine if the if one
country just said hey um you know here's
our new rule and all your money was
there or you couldn't leave or whatever
no you're screwed follow the
law but I also would say and no but but
just you follow the law also understand
if you don't like the laws you're
legally free to go somewhere and put
yourself in a different situation where
those laws are better because I
fundamentally don't believe that you
know the UAE is like a lesser country
because they choose not to tax
individual income that's their a country
just as much as anyone else is a country
and they've made that choice of how they
want to run their country and if you
want to go there you're welcome to go
there and how dare anyone else say
because they're running their country uh
in a much worse way that some some other
country shouldn't that's like you know
if you're in in in a relationship where
someone beats you like yeah like oh yeah
that guy who wouldn't beat you like you
talk that guy down right because you
want to make sure you can keep
manipulating and abusing someone you
don't want them to go to the
relationship that's like you know it's
just good and that's exactly what it is
and those those good relationships in
many cases did not exist 25 or 30 years
ago you wouldn't have moved to Malaysia
or Dubai or City 25 years ago but now
you can and now in many cases it's
better and that's uh hard for a lot of
countries to adapt
to
agreed um yeah I think a lot of people I
try to teach you know building an online
business and things just so people could
start understanding that you can be
earning income from different parts of
the world even if you're going to be
staying in that one place at least learn
to to sort of
understand that there's a whole world
out there um so we could talk all day uh
but I I certainly do you thought we G to
do this in 20 to 30 minutes we can go
all day if we need to um I I really
appreciate your time first of all I know
my subscribers do as well thank you many
of them already have been to your all of
your resources but if you wouldn't mind
just mentioning where people can go to
find out more I wrote the book called
Nomad capitalist it's on Amazon um I
mean it's I think over 2,000 great
reviews at this point um it's not a
how-to guide It's a collection of
stories and real life experiences that I
think open people's eyes to like the
stuff that maybe they didn't know one
thing I learn when I talk to wealthy
people they're most focused on unknown
unknowns like that's the thing that I've
learned as I become more successful I'm
always like how do I solve the thing I
don't know that I don't know and so I
think that the book is an interesting
starting point for that obviously we've
got about 2,700 videos at uh on YouTube
under Nomad cist we've got we deleted
some but probably 1500 um articles on
nomad.com if you prefer to read um if
you're looking to do a bit more of a
deep dive we have an annual event called
Nomad capist live we sold it out in 14
days this year we've got you know the
CEO of Air Asia Tony Fernandez is coming
and Nigel farage who led brexit and uh
all sorts of other CEOs from around the
world and uh heads of state uh and just
everyday experts including my team uh so
that's an event called Nomad cist live
you can find that on our website uh and
we work with clients um generally it's
you know a million dollars liquid uh net
worth it's not for everybody um but we
help people do what I think is very
important whether you do it with me or
not uh it's a holistic plan stuff has to
work together how do you leave Canada
how do you get into where you're going
how do you make sure you did all the
right things along the way flag Theory
your company probably shouldn't be where
you're moving so where's the company how
do we make that compliant how like
everything has to work together and
sometimes there's five 10 12 different
elements that all have to work together
I find a lot of lawyers and again just
talking to the chief knowledge officer a
lot of lawyers don't know their own
country's laws we correct some of these
lawyers we talked to far too often in
their own country let alone they don't
know how their country's laws work with
all the other Count's laws and so we
kind of provide that you know that
bridge for people who want One-Stop
shopping to do it um so that's kind of
the ultimate but um you know book
YouTube website live event you know
Services uh is what we do excellent um
well I want to thank you for being here
today and U on behalf of everybody thank
you and we'll see you soon thank you